<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["Eureka", "Load balancing"]
}
-->
# Netflix Shares Cloud Load Balancing And Failover Tool: Eureka!
https://netflixtechblog.com/netflix-shares-cloud-load-balancing-and-failover-tool-eureka-c10647ef95e5

---

# Summary
- Eureka is a service discovery tool.
- Provides client-server based load balancing.

# Content
## What is Eureka?
- is a software which gives an ability to locate services for the purposes of:
  - load balancing
  - failover
- consists of
  - Eureka server
  - Eureka client
- was built for middle-tier servers
  - the ones accessed by the internal network

## Why it was built?
- under development with cloud applications, re-deploying servers happens quite often.
- traditional load-balancing solution (ELB) could not handle this well since:
  - how it handles balancing loads does not consider the status of underlying components

## How is it different from AWS ELB?
- ELB is built for balancing loads for edge service (meaning the ones end-user/client directly make request to)
  - thus basically what is put behind ELB is inevitably exposed to public.
  - thus components like middle-tier servers cannot fit with it:
    - cannot make use of AWS security system (security group)
- What only ELB provides would be:
  - session based load balancing
- Pros compared to ELB would be:
  - less overhead when making request
    - ELB is proxy-based, meaning request will be processed with one or more additional server.
  - better fault tolerance
    - Since Eureka client directly makes request to server, it does not have concern for health of proxy server
    - plus it caches server information on client.

## How is it used at Netflix?
- helping smooth deployment
  - switching to new instances
    - rolling push
  - rolling back to previous when trouble occured

## How do client and server communicate?
- it is communication method agnostic.
- components:
  - application server:
    - registers its own information with Eureka server
    - have to do heartbeat (healthcheck?) every 30s, otherwise the information on Eureka server will be de revoked
  - Eureka server
    - zone should have at least one instance to handle zone failure
    - instances replicate informations themselves
  - Eureka client
    - gets registry information from Eureka server, and cache them locally
    - with the information, make request to application server

# Thoughts
- what is the use of sessiong based load balancing?
