https://netflixtechblog.com/how-netflix-scales-its-api-with-graphql-federation-part-1-ae3557c187e2
["graphql"]

# Summary
- Netflix had a API-layer in its system architecture where:
  - UI developer can consume API abilities as one conceptual API (abilities unified by graphql?)
  - backend developers can achieve decoupling and improved resilience.
- However, developing API-layer had become harder to manage:
  - increasing number of developers
  - increasing complexity in business logic
- To tackle this problem, they developed something called federated-graphql platform.
- Case study: studio edge
  - To support netflix's production of original contents, they develop hundreds of tools.
  - firstly, they dealt with the data complexity with:
    - single-use aggregation layers
    - introducing materialized views
      - benefit with speed, but comes with inconsistency in data
  - to deal with the drawbacks of above two approaches, they put built graphql layer
    - this gave benefits like:
      - logic reusability
      - easy and consistent data access
    - new drawbacks were:
      - the team responsible for graphql got unfamiliar with domain expertise and product needs,
        which led to unhealthiness
        - as in DDD kind of stuff?
        - isn't this a concern out of mere flaw in development flow?
      - workload to add new elements to graph api was not trivial
      - for one team (graphql layer team) to support the opearting expanding graph got harder
        - one team to consider all domains. less separation of concerns as a microservice-based architecture
  - at this point, what they wanted to have was:
    - unified graphql api layer for productivity
    - allowing respective team to implementing resolvers based on domain realm
  - they achieved this with the architecture:
    - domain graph service
      - responsible for implementing subsection of schema (like resolver, type)
    - schema registry
      - a stateful component that stores all schemas posted by dgs
      - exposes crud operations for schemas
      - validates unit/unified schema
    - graphql gateway
      - the entrypoint that consumes client's query
      - parses the query and makes request to services that implements them

# Thoughts
- how does it handle local development?
  - if were to spin up schema registry locally, have to manually push schemas every time there was an update?
