<!--
{
  "type": "task",
  "tags": ["til developmeent"]
}
-->
# Quit smoking app
- Name is TBD
  - should come up with better name
- This is still planning. When to work is totally TBD.
  - But want to work on it though.

---

# General
- Implement mobile native app which helps smokers to quit cigarette.
- Put the know-hows I learned from my own experience.

---

# Problems
- 1. Some people just can't quit smokiing.
  - This is basically too hard.
  - Though medical services and products offer help, it is still hassle.

---

# Solution
## Implement application that guide quitting smoking in effective and easy way.
- Implement an app to guide the process of quitting smoking.
- It should guide users with the method I found useful.

---

# Requirements
## External
### General
- App should be implemented as mobile native app.
  - For learning mobile app development.
  - It should provide better UX than web application
- Should be published to apple store.
- Should be paid to install (100 yen, one time purchase)
  - For the sake of pocket money!

### Guide process
- Calendar widget to guide process.
- What to configure with process:
  - when to start/complete process of quitting.
  - Initial quantity
    - quantity of cigarettes user can smoke at the beggining
- Rough overview of process would be:
  - day 1: no smoking at all
    - This significantly helps users to de-nicotine a lot, leaving rest of the process way easier.
    - Just one day for god's sake!
  - day 2 to the end: allow limited number of smoking per day

    - You can still smoke, but only limited quantity.
    - You reduce the amount by 1 per week to this last week.
    - The reducing algorithm would be:
      - for the last week, you can have 1 cigarret a day
      - from the (last week - initial quantity) week to the last week, a user reduces the quantity one per week
      - from the initial week to the above week, you can keep the initial quantity.


## Internal
- Use react-native
  - Cannot afford to learning whole new language and ecosystem around it.
  - Want to compress the amount of work as much as possible.
  - react-native should be just fine
- Utilize UI framework to have better UI/UX.

---

# Architecture
## External
### Pages
- blah

## Internal
- blah

---

# Development plan
- [ ] blah

