<!--
{
  "type": "thoughts",
  "tags": ["Development system"]
}
-->
# Thoughts on development process at last workplace in 2021

---

# Introduction
While I was working at last workplace, I couldn’t stop thinking something was wrong about how we were managing software development.
Team and development process did not seem to be good enough to beat competitors, in terms of development velocity and quality as software composed of different components.
The team heavily consisted of offshore developers, which, in my guess, was being an element that brought hardships on development process. Just to be clear I am not saying it was hard because most of them were from different country. I guess that was just a lack of knowledge and experience in managing offshore development and effort to improve it.

Some of the problems I can come up with are:
- It was too frequent to introduce various bugs when we release updates and new features.
- Development roadmap was pretty much driven by individual client’s request  to win one-time sale. No will among us about how we want to revolutionize the product.
- When looking at the codebase
  - Frontend was pretty much entangled to the point I was guessing we will have to do whole re-write of codebase in coming couple of years. There was a wreckage of micro-frontend. There was little to none testing code, document, nor not even descriptive comments. It felt like developers did not care if the service will exist in 3 years from now.
  - As for backend codebase, vaguely adopted microservice architecture without solid policy, dont-even-know-why-using-this kind of use of graphql, diverged coding style, lack of tests.
- I felt some uncertainty about how offshore developers work day to day basis. There was little to none communication with those who are in Japan.
- Approving PR as a sere means to ‘click’ merge button. There were barely active discussions taken place. My bitterest memory about it was that, when I gave comment after thinking about extensibility of some portion of code, the reviewee pushed an update which pretty much ignored my comment, there was not even a counterargument. Were you mad or something? That was so disappointing to the point which led me to becoming an automatic-LGTM-approve-reviewer. It’s just I couldn’t care less about the quality of software any more as I felt I was the only one concerned.

I was just fed up with the working experience back then.
What is our responsibility as a software engineer? We are not coders who blindly hit keyboard based on the specifications created by POs who are not familiar with technical aspects of our service. There, shouldn’t we have had stepped in to help them shape the features to achieve maximum quality and value to deliver to clients while raising technical point of views to make compromises as required?

Some developers even seemed like lazy people who are waiting to be fed tasks by spoon.
- Not wiling to learn service, application, nor had passion to actively grow product.
- Not reporting problems unless asked to.
- Not even seem to be working (how many more days to finish this tiny portion of research?)

Why. Why are you guys like this. That was my frustration. We should be able to do better! Or you won't unless you are told to or until you put it in your job description? (this should be pretty reasonable though).
Of course, when I talked to individuals, they were nice guys with humble attitude.
It’s just, most of them seemed to lack the awareness that they are part of the company which should pursue ambitious goal.

There were a few developers I admired a lot though.
- The one who writes beautiful OOP code, utilizing technology which is new to the team, quick and deep investigation when problem occurred.
- The one who manages more than dozens of developers with his stable and dependable personality.

It was an honor to work with these people.

So, enough chitchat. No more rumbling.

The purpose of this note is to reflect on the development experience at my last workplace to:
- Identify what was the problem as a whole development process.
- Clarify what caused those problems.
- Last but not least, how we could tackle these problems, while imagining what would Uchi-san do.

Let's get started.

# What were the problems of development back then?
First, I will just randomly list up the problems I can come up which is not semantically ordered.
Scope of problems could be extended from implementation details to development management style.
And then I will organize those problems.

- Application was too fragile. Gets broken at a breath of one commit.
- Little developers had a wide understanding through codebase. They were mostly only concerned with the area they are assigned tasks with.
- Little to none discussion/meetings taken place between offshore developers and those who are in Japan including developers, project/product managers, CTO.
- We did not have tradition to create and maintain documents.
  - When we got investigation request from CS team, we had to find the answer by reading through code, no help of documental materials.
  - When we were to develop a feature which extends through different features/micro-services, we did not have any supplemental material to grasp the overview of the architecture of our software.
- Some developers did not take project deadline seriously.
  - They were told when is it, explained the detail of project, and asked to plan the development to have an estimates. Some didn't even bother to do what they are asked to. Some thoughtlessly kept on working while it was pretty obvious that they won't be able to finish by deadline.
- Little to none designing what they were implementing. Just start coding without clear understanding of what they were coding. Seemed like it was just to meet the requirement of individual tickets.
- When fixing or implementing something, some developers didn't check nor locally test the acceptance criteria which they were supposed to be responsible for. If developers are not the ones to be responsible for those criteria firstly, we are freaking doomed to waste time, as QA team will be the ones to point out flaw, devs to fix it, QA team to test again. How irresponsible is that?
- No interest in the product.
  - I get it, if you are new to the team, you will be asking about the features and how to use them. But for those who have been part of team more than 3 years, how come they still haven't learnt the core feature of the application, and ended up asking someone else to create data for their needs? This is a solid proof of them having no interest or will to stretch themselves to making commit to the product. If you don't understand at least core features of the product, how can you develop it? How do you make sure of validity of the code you are writing? Acceptance criteria was ideally the absolute specification, but you should not just expect that. You should participate in examine and improve them to deliver maximum valuable product.
  - I suppose little developers could properly answer question of 'what problem does this product solve? how clients benefit from it?'. Though members from other sectors might have hard time answering too.
- When creating specification of a new feature, we did not try to inlude developers in the discussion, rather we create initial draft and ask them to take a look later.
  - This was mainly because not all of the JP members were confident enough to convey their intentions in English as a second language. The same applies to offshore developers too though. We concluded that text-based messaging could be the best choice for discussion.
- Little to none JP developers.
  - There were only two when I left the company. The other one was not really comfortable with English, plus he only worked couple days a week.
  - Since I was the only one who is JP and working on frontend development, once in a while I was asked to attend client meeting when investigation or consideration of project requirement needed.
- No culture for reviewing others' work.
  - Most of the time, what making PR meant for us was, leaving approval with good-old LGTM. Were those really LGTM? Did you actually read through the updates with careful attitude?
  - For some developers, they didn't even dare to ask for review. Just click the merge button themselves. If you are the genius kind of dev, I get it, but if so, why do we have so many bugs?
- The good developers were dedicated to bug fixing.
  - Most of the bug were not originally caused by these good ones. They were asked to fix them because they were reliable.
- Innapropriate research on library, tools, language itself.
  - Did not seem to read the appropriate materials.
  - Some people backed their work with secondary, tertiary source. Did you at least take a look at the publish date, or confirm those source state do apply to our case? In the first place, we have to stick with the primary official source...
- Not learning best practice, proper use of tools, language feature, programming paradigm
  - If you worked on a certain library for couple of years, you are supposed to know more than what tutorials tell you. You should have had cases in work that you had to ponder on approach which gives you deeper insight into that library, or gives more firm understanding of each apis.
  - Looking at the ruby code, not most of them seemed to be the ones that are written after careful thoughts, attempts to apply patterns to solve problems if necessary.
- No architecture nor development policy at all for frontend
  - Just a mess. Jack-in-the-box of bad practice.
    - Logics married with UI specifics.
    - Little cohesion which is thought to be good such as, functional or semantic
    - Components are too complicated to write unit test.
    - Components implemented in an entangled way. Not sticking with props-flow-from-parent-to-child or presentation-container pattern.
  - Wreckage of micro-frontend
    - Should have had consideration and set policy
  - Use of graphql and grpahql client cache for global state management. Did we really need to introduce this?
    - (Ah? Probably I was the first one to propose it. Then most likely my bad!)
- Vaguely adopted use of microservice.
  - Some of them adopted the popular approaches, availability in mind.
  - For others, just stick with plain old approach.
  - It's not about which one is better, but about defining policy with clear objective in mind, so that:
    - we have reasonings to come back to when making another decision around architecture.
    - we have consistent codebase. Less dissonance when orchestrating various services.

Okay, enough for a mess. Let's tidy things up.

# Analysis on the problems

# So how can we tackle these problems?
