<!--
{
  "type": "thoughts",
  "tags": ["Programming", "Software engineering"]
}
-->
# Thoughts on programming

---

# Written codes should always be like a secret sauce of tastiest ramen with description, not like a tap water
- When we write a code, there will enevitably be various decisions behind it.
- Even a tiny ternary operator stands for certain business logic.
  - It must not be there just because. We wanted that part to be dynamic, because there is a business logic to express.
- For me, if I talk about my heart towards coding, I want to keep on writing codes without daring to ponder on logics for the problem I'm supposed to solve. I just want to focus on creating something. I want to leave concerns for now and future, and build something useful, and beautiful.
- However, if I talk about the reasoning part of my brain, I should not write code like above for both professional work and DIY hobby project.
- Because, writing a codes to build software should always be based on logical reasonings. All the programs work as your source codes tell them to. Thus our program should ideally be 100% clear to be reasoned. Even a small portion of it should be able to be explained with clear logic, otherwise you will be doomed to be waken up in 2am in the morning to deal with bugs while clients are furious.
- Not only the above reason, writing codes to build software should basically get along with continous deveopment, meaning the source code you write today might have to have a major update tomorrow, or in couple of years.
  - When we have to continously develop same software, source code thoughtlessly written could bring problems like following:
    - cohesion-less codes could make the update harder or even impossible without whole rewrite
    - higher barriar for new developers to join development, since source code is not really comprehensible
    - inproperly structured source code tend to introduce bugs more often, since it is hard to comprehend the behavior after update. nobody wants to touch them at the end.
- Given the points above, I think the codes we write could be metaphored like following:
  - Tap water
    - tap water just flows without questioning anything.
    - writing codes without reasonings is just like this.
    - we write code without thinking about requrements, future possibility, nor grasping the position in the architecture. just write instructions to meet the task
's acceptance criteria.
  - Secret sauce of tastiest ramen with description
    - I came up with this metaphor for couple of reasons:
      - Good code is like an art with functionality. When you encounter it, you would be amazed at how beautifully written with various problems on author's mind. It is not just a logical deliverable, they are literally art.
      - Good code is not only art but also functional piece of software. Just like a tasty sip of ramen functions to provide you satisfaction, good code works and be ready for future updates.
