<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["vue.js", "pwa"]
}
-->
# Why Vue Storefront?
https://mayank-1513.medium.com/why-vue-storefront-4cae6562679d

---

# Summary
- Vue Storefront is a framework focused on improving user experience for mobile.
- It integrates PWA features to empower their functionalities.
- Flexibility for integrating with any kind of backend systems

# Content
## Increasing demand of mobile user experience.
- every year, more and more people are migrating from PC to mobile phones.
- for eCommerse services, this is not favorable:
  - most os the eCommerse websites are not optimized for mobile devices (less powerful)
  - thus, its performance as a web page is pretty bad (taking several seconds to just render page)
  - according to Google's investigation, mobile users tend to leave the page if it takes more than 3 seconds to render.

## What is Vue Storefront?
- a framework designed for empowering eCommerse industries to build better web apps.
- core values:
  - utilizes modern javascript tech stacks:
    - vue.js
    - PWA
  - integrates with any backend system:
    - popular headless CMSs
    - your own backend server
  - free, open source
    - use for free
    - backed by contributors all around the world.

## What is PWA?
- A something to push web application to something resembling mobile native apps:
  - data caching
- Google is taking a lead to promote it.
  - Microsoft and Mozilla are investing into it as well.

## Main features of Vue Storefront
- better user experience
  - more accessible than mobile native apps, as it is web application based.
  - efficient memory usage
  - offline support
- components
  - built-in UI components. no need to define every single components which are frequently used
  - customizability on components.
- Storefront themes
  - customizability on theme
- eCommerce features

# Thoughts
- Seems to be this is targeted for more like a business owner
- I thought this could give me an idea for what store front design pattern is
