<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["grpahql"]
}
-->

# Open Sourcing the Netflix Domain Graph Service Framework: GraphQL for Spring Boot
https://netflixtechblog.com/open-sourcing-the-netflix-domain-graph-service-framework-graphql-for-spring-boot-92b9dcecda18

---

# Summary
- Domain Grpah Service is a tool to make the integrating graphql into java-based applications.
- features are:
  - Annotation based spring boot like programming model
  - test support for query
  - gradle code generation support to generate java/kotlin types from graphql schema
  - easier integration with graphql federation
- development with graphql has two approaches:
  - schema first: write graphql schema with dedicated definition language, which supposedly generates codes for runtime
  - code first: write graphql schema within a choice of programming language or something
- netflix prefered schema first approach because:
  - schema design is the front and center of the developer experience
    - didn't get this sentence. probably meaning defining schema lays foundation for further development?
  - it integrates easier with toolings from graphql echo system
    - since schema is the official property of graphql, other toolings should support it better than when you do it with code-first
    - given this opinion, what is the point of 
  - reduce workload for supporting backword compatibility when making update
    - since all the knowledge about graphql is consolidated into schema file, it is easier to track them
- work flow example 1:
  - defining query resolver
  - define graphql schema
  - define class with provided annotation
  - define method with provided annotation specifying parent type and field name
- support for federated graphql
  - federated graphql means that graphs are unified and exposed through gateway

# Thoughts
- What is the point of choosing code-first approach when using graphql?
  - faster development especially in the initial phase
    - no cost to learn graphql ddl
- What is federated graphql service?
  - will do in another post.
  - is it:
    - something I read before was referring to it like merging graphql schemas? was it apollo federation?
    - splits graphql server, they all have their own schema, but the client can reference/use them all?
