<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["cqrs"]
}
-->
# CQRS
https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CQRS.html

# Summary
- CQRS is a pattern that separates a object model into Reading-data-purposed and Manipulating-data-purposed.
- (What was the benefits by doing this ... ?)
- Uncle is repeatedly mentions that developers should really consider before adopting this pattern,
  since it adds complexity on software while cases that is suitable for it is very limited.

# Content
## What is CQRS pattern?
- it is a strategy to use different models for read and write conceptually same data.
- rationale says that, when object model is loaded with lots of logic including read/write, the object would grow into
  something that does neither of them well.
  - like entangled logic within one object class?

## Background for how CQRS pattern emerged
- basic way to structure system dealing with data is through CRUD model.
  - provide create, read, update, delete operation on conceptual model.
- however, as business requirements for system is getting more complicated, developers started to feel the need to express/use those data in different ways:
  - store aggregated data
  - forming virtual records
  - validating combination of data
  - infering data to be stored in some other place
- developers tend to implement all the related logic within one conceptual domain model, despite its increasing complexity

## Architecture patterns fits well with CQRS
- task based ui (??)
  - seems to be this is soemthing that does not fit well with CRUD based system
- event sourcing
- eventual consistency
  - because read and write logic are in separate model, software tend to be unable to stick with latest data
- EagerReadDerivation
- EventPosters

## When to use it
- according to what uncle has seen so far, most of them did not really benfit from adopting this pattern since:
  - this separation forces the application to be structured in a different way than CRUD does.
- when it's used, it should be applied to a portion of system as it fits. do not introduce it to entire system. this aint gonna end well for sure.
- the cases that benefit from this pattern:
  - 1. system that represents complicated domain
  - 2. system that needs good performance
    - since logics are separated, it would be easier to apply optimization respectively. (eg. use different database)

# Thoughts
- what exactly is forming virtual records in db?
