<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["grpahql"]
}
-->
# The key differences between stateless and stateful microservices
https://searchapparchitecture.techtarget.com/tip/The-key-differences-between-stateless-and-stateful-microservices

# Summary
- microservices could be either stateful or stateless
- knowing this distinction of two, and architect the system should help you to maximize the power of cloud-based applications

# Content
- software systems today
  - what is OLTP (online transaction processing).
    - eg) bank withdrawals, in-store purchases, online orders.
    - OLTP is a stateful interaction, since there is a transaction which commits some update to data stored in somewhere
  - services on the internet utilizes stateless interaction
    - eg) http request
    - if software component is stateless:
      - gives better operability (eg. if something breaks, easier to swap them with new one)
      - better resiliency
      - better scalability
      - good fit for the cloud based application
        - make most of horizontal scalability
  - dilemma between nature of business and cloud-based applications
    - most of business needs are stateful ones
    - cloud-based applications (or probably any kind of software) work better if stateless oriented
- stateless vs stateful microservices
  - storefront design pattern helps to look into how microservices can implement OLTP kind of requirement
    - because retail activity is inherently stateful, microservice has to deal with nature of OLTP inevitably
  - to support business around it, there are number of hardships to overcome:
    - stateful load balancing
      - orchestrate separate processes to support distinctive workload
    - distributed transaction
      - eg) two phase commit, one as part of process, another to commit permanently after entire process succeeded
  - in cloud microservices approach, microservice act as stateless function
    - works like with reference permeability, given same input, output is always same unconditionally
    - social media service was a good fit, since the nature of it is leaning towards event-driven, which is more preferable for stateless components.
- merging the models
  - one of the rising trend in application design is to merge the transactional and event models
    - implementing stateful process with a stateless
  - available methods
    - system needs a mechanism which does not require microservice to store state information
      - choreography-based saga?
      - orchestration-based saga would require the orchestrator to store state of saga
        - or we could store them in persistence layer?
        - but doing so would put burden on:
          - extensibility of application
        - harder operability
    - utilize combination of serverless functions and external orchestration tool (AWS step functions, azure logic apps)
      - therefore, the application code space would not have responsibility to manage state information

# Thoughts
- does `stateless microservice` mean that it does not even database?
  - according to this article:
    - https://medium.com/@xenonstack/stateful-and-stateless-microservices-application-solutions-f1fa38326f37
    - example for being `stateful` would be:
      - has session information on server's environment like filesystem, on memory
        - thus, if we were to deploy new version of service, the state of it would be lost.
- this article was kind of hard to understand the main topic
  - guess this is because:
    - while the center of discussion of this article was comparing two approaches toward development with microservices,
      I was not familiar with those approaches in the first place. there was a gap between the expectation and what this article is really about.
      - understanding the difference itself was the point of picking up this article though...
      - I should skim through little more before pick an article for a specific purpose next time.
- can asynchronous messaging pattern be identified as leaning towards to stateless?
  - in messaging context:
    - sync messaging: more stateful, since it tends to have more logics that requires the other side is up and running in order to finish their part.
    - async messaging: less stateful, since it does not care if the other side is running in order to finish their part
