<!--
{
  "type": "summary",
  "tags": ["service worker"]
}
-->
# Introduction to Service Worker
https://developers.google.com/web/ilt/pwa/introduction-to-service-worker

# Summary
- Service worker is type of web worker that work along with web page's javascript.
- Itself works for proxing request from main page, but it also lays foundation for other new web standards like push, notification, bg sync

# Content
## What is a service worker?
- it is an js environment that is isolated from usual web page js environment.
- it can even run when page is not open.
  - how exactly it works as a background process differs between browsers
    - eg) browser has to be running or not
- because it is isolated from web page js environment:
  - it cannot use synchronous apis (synchronous XMLHttpRequest, localStorage)
  - it can receive push notifications
  - it cannot operate on DOM
  - it has to use postMessage api to interact with web page js
- other things to note:
  - can be a programmable network proxy, which can control how requests from web page are handled.
  - only works when page is served over https
  - it can transition to idle state when not used. developer should not rely on global state. if there is something to persist, use IndexedDB
  - makes heavy use of Promise

## What can service workers do?
- it can control network requests from web page, cache them, provide the cache when offline.
  - depends on Fetch api and Cache api
- lays base for other advanced features
  - notifications api
    - use os's native notification to pop up some informations
  - push api
    - allow server to push some data to browser, and SW receive it
  - background sync api
    - like a will send save request when back to offline
  - channel messaging api
    - for web workers and service workers to communicate with each other

## Service worker lifecycle
- registration
  - on main js thread, call register api on serviceWorker
  - this api return promise which resolves when registration is done
  - the fullfilled data contain scope in which service worker is allowed to slide in
  - the scope is determined by:
    - if option is given on register call, use the given path
    - else the directory service-worker is placed and below are in scope
- installation
  - after registration, SW needs to be installed if following condition met:
    - has not installed yet
    - it is a new SW
- activation
  - after installation, transitions to activation state
  - if other page is opened which has old SW, the new SW will be put in waiting state.

# Thoughts
- how exactly man-in-the-middle attack can happen when service worker is served without https?
  - probably this means more like web page owner would be discouraged to do such thing since the server has to have certificate?
- how does cache control get along with that of http specification?
  - the 'Cache-Control' request header?
  - wouldn't controling it in service worker be a reinventing wheel? or worse duplicated wheel?
- how does background sync api work?
  - when process depends on the response data, how that process can continue processing?
  - or the process has to be structured in a way that can handle it?
