<!--
{
  "type": "learn",
  "tags": ["react", "react-query"]
}
-->
# React Query Learning note
- https://react-query.tanstack.com/
- https://react-query.tanstack.com/community/tkdodos-blog

---

# Motivations to use
- Advanced caching mechanism
    - consolidated mechanism to make use of cache.
        - cached data can be re-used across different component that consume same custom hook
    - consistent way to orchestrate fetching, mutate, then refetching
    - Query Keys
        - is flexible to identify almost any kind of cache-data so that we can mitigate unnecessary requests
- Refetching mechanism
    - refetch when:
        - user re-focus window (eg. come back from other tab)
    - refetchInterval
        - can implement polling easily


# Concerns
## Higher barriar to use this lib to full extent?
- refetching configuration sounds intimidating.
    - probably it needs advanced configurations for real world usecase?
        - separating config based on env
    - depending on browser, built-in dialog might trigger focus event too
        - you should watch out for this one, as those events might trigger unnecessary refetching and bugs (by unmounting component and not triggering callback properly)
        - https://react-query.tanstack.com/guides/window-focus-refetching#pitfalls--caveats
- query key usage needs designing?
    - used for:
        - caching
        - identify which to invalidate
    - it does not seem to be a piece of cake to make use of it.
    - simple string vs detailed key with objects
        - doc says if the request function needs certain input, the key should be array and the input should be included in it

## Things might need configuration
- Retry-fetches
    - probably should just disable this and enable it wherever it seems to need it
- window-focus refetch
    - probably should disable it for:
        - at least dev environment?, as it might bother development

## Things to polyfill
- AbortController
    - if you want to use abort signal

# Features
- This is designed to deal with server state

## Default condifugrations
### Eager refetching
- by default RQ does refetch pretty eagerly as all the options are enabled and staleTime is set to pretty short (is it 0?)
- by default inactive query data will be GC-ed after 5 min.
- by default query is retried 3 times with exponential backoff

## Query
- query hooks accepts two arguments
    - unique key across an entire codebase
        - this will be an identifier for refetching, caching ...
    - request function which either returns Promise or throws an error

### Query Key
- used to identify the query instance
- value for a key can be anything that is JSON-serializable
    - string is a basic usecase
    - can also be a nested object of array if it is JSON-serializable and unique to the query content

### Parallel Query
- if not Suspense mode, you can just place the useQuery-s side-by-side
- if in Suspense mode, you need to use useQueries hook

### Dependent Queries
- if you want to control the order of execution of queries, you can do so via `enabled` option of useQuery
    - this tells RQ if a certain query should be executed

## Invalidating query cache
- Has a wide support for invalidating cache
- invalidate by:
    - query key (prefix / exact)
    - QueryFilters
    - callback function to predicate on the fly
- invalidating always requires queryClient

## QueryFilters

## Mutations
- Provides lifecycle callbacks for flexibility
    - on hook and mutate callback opt
- mutateAsync is provided for promise-based code
- persist mutations
    - mutations can be persisted in storage and make RQ resume it later
- invalidation after mutation is basically always required
    - there are two ways to do this:
        - invalidate by query key
        - make use of the response object of mutation request

## Query cancellation
- Query apis provide signal property which is an instance of AbortSignal
    - You can use this in expected place
        - pass to fetch api

## DevTools
- is a React component to embed in your app
- takes care of prod concerns by itself
    - Not to be included in prod bundle


## Typescript integration
- It is recommended to lock the React-Query version for type-safety
    - the type-annotation change is brought in patch version changes

# Comparison with alternatives
- https://react-query.tanstack.com/comparison
- Query key change detection
    - RQ says it deep-compares the serialized query key. How exactly is it different from others?
    - RTK-Query goes for simple implementation (just use === referencial equality)
- Query data change detection
    - RQ says it deep-comparison + structural sharing.
        - what exactly is structural sharing?
- bundle size
    - apollo is the biggest of all (39kb)
    - RQ is kind of in middle (12.9kb)
    - SWR is the smallest (4kb)
        - Probably this illustrates their policy of lib, simple to use so limited features?
- Auto garbage collection
    - RQ says it supports it, but what exactly is GC of this kind of lib?
- Mutations Hooks
    - SWR says it does not support it officially
        - there is a document but it feels like a work-around kind of method. mutation is not 1st class support
        - https://swr.vercel.app/docs/mutation
- Offline mutation support
    - is this like service worker kind of thing?
    - like caching the request and trigger it when network is back?
- Prefetching APIs
    - what is this?
    - SWR does not support it
- Window/network focus refetching
    - sounds good
- General Cache Dehydration/Rehydration
    - SWR not support this
- Normalized caching
    - only apollo supports this
    - flattening the nested object to avoid duplicate entities


# TkDodo's blog
https://tkdodo.eu/blog/practical-react-query

- How the author met RQ
    - Apollo client (graphql) was on fire
    - He envied some qualities of it:
        - simplicity of caching server state and make it available to any part of UI
- Have a query key factory so that different location of the app can consistently create query keys
    - https://tkdodo.eu/blog/effective-react-query-keys
    - with this way, we add semantics to each query key and reuse it across codebase
- React-Query as a state manager
    - https://tkdodo.eu/blog/react-query-as-a-state-manager
    - Before react-query, there were two approaches
        - fetch and store data in global store (redux)
        - fetch and store data locally (plain hook)
    - staleTime
        - this leverages how often RQ should revalidate the cache entry
        - The author recommends 20 sec
            - we can still explicitly revalidate cache entry by key
