<!--
{
  "type": "learn",
  "tags": ["rust"]
}
-->
# Rust learning

---

# Todo
- What exactly is life time annotation?
    - why do we need it?
    - how does it work?
    - why we need it for reference field in struct
- What is cargo workspace?
    - why we need it?
- what is the difference between String and &str
- what is derive attribute?
    - how does it work? can i implement one?
- what are common attributes and what they do
    - Debug
    - Clone
    - PartialEq
- what is macro?
    - how does it work? can i implement one?
- what is to_owned method?
- what is extern crate?
    - how is it different from just use


# Learnings

## What is the difference between String and &str
```
"String" is a dynamic and mutable string type that owns its data, while "str" (String Slice) is an immutable reference to a fixed portion of a string and does not own the data.
```

## What are the methods we can use on vec?
- https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/vec/struct.Vec.html

## What is the difference between lib.rs and mod.rs?
- lib.rs
    - this is for the default file name for the root directory of library crate
- mod.rs
    - this is the default file name of certain module
    - to declare module, it can be either of following two:
        - foo/mod.rs
        - foo.rs

## What is derive attribute?
- it generates new item for the item that is given this attribute

## What is dyn keyword?
- reference: https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/trait/dyn.html?highlight=dyn#returning-traits-with-dyn
- rust compiler need to know exact amount of memory needed for return values of function
- when return type is trait, actual required amount of memory differs based on the underlying type
- thus we need to put that resulting value in Box and mark the trait type dyn to denote that it is a variable type


# Reference
## General
- rust by example: https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/index.html
- rust reference: https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/introduction.html

## Example repo
- https://github.com/snamiki1212/realworld-v1-rust-actix-web-diesel
