<!--
{
  "type": "thoughts",
  "tags": ["job-hunting", "career"]
}
-->
# Thoughts on job hunting 2024

---

# About going back to the company K
## What do I wanna write?
- What would the work be like if changed?
- Other motivations?
- Why not feeling convinced?

## What would the work be like if changed?
Most likely I will be dedicated to following areas:

- 1: Bridging JP biz and Vietnam devs
    - General
        - To smoothly proceed with functional development, I will be standing between the two parties and undertake communication and progress management.
        - Probably the job includes Product owner like work too, like having a certain degree of spec detemination.
    - What exactly to do?
        - With JP biz, consider what to develop and determine the initial spec
        - Transfer decided spec and background to dev team.
        - probably
            - in cooperation with devs, create project schedule
            - in cooperation with devs, manage schedules
            - Help other biz to communicate with dev team
    - What do I gain?
        - Offshore development manage skills
        - Project management skills

- 2: Engineering AI powered features
    - General
        - In cooperation with dev teams, develop AI powered features
    - What exactly to do?
        - Basically same as No1
        - Learn AI develop trends and propose to implement them in the product
        - probably
            - join the dev team to engage with implementation
    - What do I gain?
        - AI tools knowledge and trends
        - Experience to develop AI powered tools

- 3: Advisor for frontend field
    - General
        - They got ... web frontend with React, right ... ?
        - In case there is not much of tech lead, I might be of help
    - What exactly to do?
        - Investigate the codebase and propose improvements
            - Architecture, library stack, DX, coding guidelines
        - Training devs
            - Materials, study session, coding reviews
        - Attend spec meeting to give insights of frontend dev
    - What do I gain?
        - Gain experience as tech lead

## Other motivations?
- Wakuwaku for building something new from scratch
    - AI powered features are something emerging
    - Kinda wakuwaku for it
- An experience of IPO
    - Will be really valuable memory
- SO ... ?
    - It really depends on how much I can contribute to the company
- Meeting the expectation
    - Tarutaru gave me an opportunity
    - Meeting the expectation would be nice
- As an opportunity to autonomously and actively work as an engineer

## Why not feeling convinced?
- Concerned about the social trust of company compared to CW
    - Now that Connie and I were talking about permanent visa, having less chances on it would be not really tolerated
- Not really achieved in current work place
    - I wanted to build achievements by 3 years at the place, but haven't really been able to do it yet
    - just too busy with usual work, not much of chance to go for additional work
- Concerned about my own potential
    - Would I really be of help when joined?
- Lack of dev team unity
    - Most likely I won't be able to have chances to communicate with other passionate engineers
    - Just like the post I had written after leaving the company.
    - But at the same time, some might say changing that would give you grea oppotunity to grow
        - Would be something like manage non-passionate members to maximize the output.
        - Nurture engineer culture
        - Improve development process
    - Well I'm really not the one with the talent to manage others by nature
        - I'm more of a player
- Lack of passionate devs
    - Like Kai-san, Takeda-san
    - My hands will be pretty much tied enough with my own work, and how am I supposed to deal with other non-motivated devs?
- Can I handle offshore development like Uchi-san did?
    - Very challenging
